Website mockup generator (#1575)
hackclub/hackclub: workshops/website_mockup_generator/README.md

The Website mockup generator will be looking like this (You can consider modifying the look if you wish) :

[![homepage](https://cloud-b7njozaef.vercel.app/0websitemockupgenerator.png)](https://repl.it/@19EUCS071KUMARA/Website-Mockup-Generator)

You can also take a look at the [live demo][final_live_demo] and [final code][final_code].

[final_live_demo]: https://hcworkshop.19eucs071kumara.repl.co/
[final_code]: https://repl.it/@19EUCS071KUMARA/Website-Mockup-Generator
[repl_it]: https://repl.it

## Part 1: Prerequisites

It is recommended to have a basic understanding of:

- HTML
- JavaScript
- CSS (totally optional for you to customize the look)

However, this workshop is beginner friendly and you can refer the [final code][final_code] to understand better.

## Part 2: Getting started

### Setting up Repl.it

[Repl.it](https://repl.it) is an amazing online code editor where we will be writing our code. Though repl.it is not mandatory, I strongly recommend you to use it in order to avoid installations and downloads.

> To get started, Create your Repl by going to [https://repl.it/languages/html](https://repl.it/languages/html). Your coding environment will be created in a few moments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started, create your repl by going to [https://repl.it/languages/html](https://repl.it/languages/html). Your coding environment will be created in a few moments.

```

Reviewer: capitalizations

![Setting up repl.it](https://cloud-flfptkrmk.vercel.app/0setuprepl.gif)

Once your repl is setup, you are all set to continue!

## Part 3: Building The Website Mockup Generator

After your repl is setup successfully, you will be able to find 3 files on the left pane :
- index.html
- script.js
- style.css

We will be working with all the three files in this workshop. So, get your hands on the keyboard for some code!

![Coding cat](https://media.giphy.com/media/LmNwrBhejkK9EFP504/giphy.gif)

### 1) index.html

First, let us write the required HTML code for the website mockup generator. You will be having the following code in `index.html` by default :

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
    <title>repl.it</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```
#### The site title

> In the `<head>` section, Replace the text inside the title tag to the title you want. In my case, I am replacing it with 'Website Mockup Generator'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `<head>` section, Replace the text inside the title tag to the title you want. In my case, I am replacing it with 'Website Mockup Generator'.

```

```html 
<title>Website Mockup Generator</title>
```

#### Changing the body background color and alignment

> In order to change the background color and the text alignment inside the body, specify a class called 'body' in the body tag. We will be providing CSS styling for the body class later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to change the background color and the text alignment inside the `body`, specify a class called '``body``' in the body tag. We will be providing CSS stylings for the `body` class later.

```

```html
<body class="body">
```

#### The heading

> In the `<body>` provide the heading inside `<h1>...</h1>` tags. In my case, I am providig the heading as 'Website Mockup Generator'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `<body>` we will add a heading inside `<h1>...</h1>` tags.

```

Reviewer: last line is not required

```html
<h1>Website Mockup Generator</h1>
```

#### Placing a text input field
In order to place a text input field to get the website from the URL, use the following line to create a text input with a placeholder 'Enter the website' and provide id to the input as 'websiteAddress'.

```html

> <input type="text" id="websiteAdress" placeholder='Enter the website'>

Reviewer: typo in the id name

Author: um that was not a typo actually. it was intentional nvm, i will correct the id name

```

#### Placing the buttons

> We need two buttons to generate the mockup and to download respectively. Use the `<button>` tag twice to place the buttons. Provide the button label in between the `<button></button>` tags. Provide the id as `submitButton` for the 'Generate mockup' button and `Download` for 'Download' button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need two buttons to generate the mockup and to download respectively. Use the `<button>` tag twice to place the buttons. Provide the button label in between the `<button></button>` tags. Provide the id as `submitButton` for the 'Generate mockup' button and `Download` for the 'Download' button.

```

```html
<button type="submit" id="submitBtn" onclick='generateMockup();'>Generate Mockup</button>
<button id="Download">Download</button>
```

#### Generated mockup image

> We will be using an `<image>` tag to display the generated mockup image. Provide the id as `resultImg`.

Reviewer: `<img>`

```html
<img id='resultImg'>
```

#### Final index.html code:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width">
    <title>Website Mockup Generator</title>
    <link href="style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body class="body">
    <h1>Website Mockup Generator</h1>
    <input type="text" id="websiteAdress" placeholder='Enter the website'>
    <br><br>
    <button type="submit" id="submitBtn" onclick='generateMockup();'>Generate Mockup</button>
    <button id="Download">Download</button>
    <img id='resultImg'>
    <script src="script.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

And that's it! We have completed writing our HTML.

### 2) style.css

> The style.css file is used to customize the look of the website mockup generator. We will be making the background color as red using `backgroundcolor: red;`. We will also align the text to center by `text-align: center;`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The style.css file is used to add styles to our website. We will be making the background color as red using `background-color: red;`. We will also align the text to center by `text-align: center;`.

```

#### Final style.css code:
```css
.body{
  background-color: red;
  text-align: center;
}
```

You can customize the styles and make it look better if you wish.

### 3) script.js

The script.js file contains the required JavaScript code. The aim of the JavaScript code is: 
- To get the website address from the text input
- Generate a mockup for the website by pressing 'Generate Mockup' button
- Display the mockup as an image
- Allow users to download the image by pressing 'Download' button

Let us implement the above steps one by one :

> #### Getting the elements from HTML in JS by their Id

Reviewer: "JavaScript" "id"

> Firstly, we will be getting the elements from HTML into JS by using their Ids using the following code :

Reviewer: id not Id

```javascript
const resultImg = document.getElementById("resultImg");
const Download = document.getElementById("Download");
```

#### Defining the generateMockup() function
In order to generate the mockups, we will be defining the generateMockup() function which is called when the 'Generate Mockup' button is pressed. Create a function called generateMockup() using:

```javascript
const generateMockup = () => {
// Function definition here
}

> Now, assign the value of `websiteAdress` to the value from the text input field using :

Reviewer: bug here
